happens when wild animals migrate in search of food and water especially during the dry season. Humans have occupied wildlife land which sometimes happens to be the migrating route of wild animals. During migration, the animals come across farms and livestock. Conflict begins when wild animals devour on mans belonging and the man tries defend it. 

Man has been coexisting with wild animals but due to climate change, scarcity of food and water, occupation of wildlife land (due to increasing human population) has brought the conflict.

communities coexisting with wildlife get stranded on the action to take against threatening attack from elephants. Man doesn't want to kill the animal because they will be breaking the law, at same time the animal wants to devour their property. The immediately report the matter to KWS but there's poor response time. What do they do?

animals in frequent conflict with man are monkeys, elephants, lions, leophards, hyena.
crops frequently devoured by wildlife are maize, tomatoes
livestock being eaten are chicken, cows, goats, sheep

There's poor communication between KWS and community. People don't know how to reach them. There's poor compensation 

what KWS is doing to combact HWC:
- educate people on effective ways to coexist harmoniously with wildlife
- corporate social responsibility- building resource for community. eg, schools, dispensaries, boreholes as a way to motivate people coexist with wildlife.
- Giving compensations to those affected

 “They assume that fences make sense to protect your property from elephants; however, what we found is that they are still breaking fences, and other animals are dying in the process. Fencing is actually worse than poaching because we are blocking animal corridors and we are losing wildebeest and giraffes every day killed by electric fences. We need a better solution and MEP is working to discover that.”
 
 the goal is to enable human and wildlife coexists with one another.
 
 Arcgis is a software sln that utilizes gis and remote sensing to know the wildlife locations, learn their movements and understand their interactions with natural resources and even man. All this is displayed on maps
 
 
 In Kenya, African honey bees (Apis mellifera) have been placed in fences, known as beehive fences, to try to reduce elephant crop raiding
 
 in Asia people use firecrackers, torches, or bang pans to deter elephants
 the application of negative stimuli to change behavior such as using chemicals that taste bad or induce vomiting, electric shock collars, rubber bullets, loud noise or lights, guard dogs, and plants 
 
 
 Radio telemetry is a technique that uses radio signals to track the movement and behavior of animals
 
 continuous monitoring of wildlife using collaring has been
proven to be expensive to install and operate due to its
networking requirements and the equipment’s initial cost,
especially in remote areas with poor network coverage and low
population density [4], while a hotline system utilizes a reactive
approach, hence there is a need for a cheaper and proactive
approach
